---
layout: post
title:  "CORs: Cross Origin Resource Sharing"
date:   2016-03-05
categories: learnings
author: 'Steven Inouye'
subtitle: 'A fundamental piece of web programming'
---
Definition: 'Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) is a mechanism that allows restricted resources (e.g. fonts) on a web page to be requested from another domain outside the domain from which the resource originated.' -Wikipedia

If you have programmed on the web there is a very good chance you have run into this error...

{% highlight ruby %}
XMLHttpRequest cannot load some_url. No 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' header is present on the requested resource. Origin 'null' is therefore not allowed access.
{% endhighlight %}

It is generally caused by an ajax request calling an endpoint outside of your domain. I ran into this error because I tried to immediately display images that are saved in my github folder. Basically I needed to get the names of the files inside a directory not included in my Jekyll blog. Then use the names to populate a HTML page with a simple ng-repeate in angular. It is unfortuate when hosting your github pages, accessing directories in the same github through $http requests are considered cross origin domain searches.

The work around is generally to allow cross origin resources accross the board or for specific domains. However, I only wanted the sourcecode for a directory I am hosting. I used the simple fix by prefacing my url with...
{% highlight ruby %}
http://cors.io/?u=http://
{% endhighlight %}
This allowed me to get the sourcecode from my directory and parse it for the image tags. Inside the <a href="/cannabis#/kasper">cannabis</a> section you can see it in action.
